GENERAL FORBEARANCE REQUEST  OMB No. 1845-0031 
William D. Ford Federal Direct Loan (Direct Loan) Program / Federal Family  Form Approved 
Education Loan (FFEL) Program / Federal Perkins Loan (Perkins Loan) Program Exp. Date 2/28/2019

WARNING: Any person who knowingly makes a false statement or misrepresentation on this form or on 
GFB any accompanying document is subject to penalties that may include fines, imprisonment, or both, under 
the U.S. Criminal Code and 20 U.S.C. 1097.
SECTION 1: BORROWER INFORMATION
Please enter or correct the following information.
Check this box if any of your information has changed.
SSN 123-45-6789
Name John Doe
Address 123 Independence Ave
City New York State NY Zip Code 12345
Telephone - Primary 2013450000
Telephone - Alternate
Email (Optional) johndoe@gmail.com

SECTION 2: FORBEARANCE REQUEST
Carefully read the entire form before completing it. Answer all questions in Section 2. Your loan holder has sole 
discretion in whether to grant your general forbearance request, and, if granted, for what period your forbearance 
will be applied. Instead of forbearance, you may want to consider requesting a deferment (which has an interest benefit 
for some loan types) or changing to a repayment plan that determines your monthly payment amount based on your 
income. Visit StudentAid.gov/IDR for more information.
1. I am requesting a forbearance because I am  2. If approved for a forbearance, I would like to:
experiencing a temporary hardship related to one of  Temporarily stop making payments.
the following situations (check one):
4 Temporarily make smaller payments of
4 Financial difficulties 100 per month.
Change in employment
Medical expenses 3. I would like my forbearance to begin with the 
Other (explain the situation below) monthly payment that is due in the month and year 
below:
01/2020

4. If approved for forbearance, I would like my 
forbearance to end in the month and year below, 
and begin making payments the following month:
01/2021

Page 1 of 4 Borrower Name John Doe Borrower SSN 123-45-6789

SECTION 3: BORROWER/ENDORSER UNDERSTANDINGS, CERTIFICATIONS, AND AUTHORIZATION
I understand that:

• I am not required to make payments of loan principal or interest during my forbearance, but interest will continue to 
be charged on all my loans.
• My loan holder has sole discretion in whether to grant my general forbearance request and for what dates it will be 
granted.
• For Perkins Loans, there is a cumulative limit on general forbearance of 3 years. For Direct Loans and FFEL Program 
loans, my loan holder may set a limit on general forbearance.
• My forbearance will end on the earlier of the end date that I requested, 12 months from the date my forbearance 
begins, or when I exhaust any limit that my loan holder has on forbearance.
• I can request another forbearance after my forbearance ends if I am still experiencing financial hardship.
• Interest may capitalize on my loans during or at the expiration of my forbearance, but interest never capitalizes on 
Perkins Loans.

I certify that:

• The information I have provided on this form is true and correct.
• I will provide additional documentation to my loan holder, if requested, to support my general forbearance request.
• I will repay my loans according to the terms of my promissory note, even if my request is not granted.

I authorize the entity to which I submit this request and its agents to contact me regarding my request or my loans at any 
cellular telephone number that I provide now or in the future using automated telephone dialing equipment or artificial or 
prerecorded voice or text messages.

Borrower's/Endorser's Signature Date  11/03/2019

SECTION 4: INSTRUCTIONS FOR COMPLETING THE FORBEARANCE REQUEST
Type or print using dark ink. Enter dates as month-day-year (mm-dd-yyyy) or (mm-yyyy) as appropriate. Example: March 14, 
2016 = 03-14-2016. Include your name and account number on any documentation that you may be requested to submit 
with this form. If you want to apply for a forbearance on loans that are held by different loan holders, you must submit a 
separate forbearance request to each loan holder. Return the completed form and any requested documentation to the 
address shown in Section 6. 
  
If you are an endorser, you may request forbearance only when you are required to repay the loan because the borrower is 
not making payments. If you have a loan made jointly with another borrower (as co-makers), you must both individually meet 
the requirements for a forbearance and each of you must request forbearance.

Page 2 of 4 SECTION 5: DEFINITIONS
Capitalization is the addition of unpaid interest to the  A forbearance is a period during which you are allowed 
principal balance of your loan. Capitalization causes more  to postpone making payments temporarily, allowed an 
interest to accrue over the life of your loan and may cause  extension of time for making payments, or temporarily 
your monthly payment amount to increase. Interest never  allowed to make smaller payments than scheduled. A 
capitalizes on Perkins Loans. Table 1 (below) provides an  forbearance can be a mandatory forbearance, meaning that 
example of the monthly payments and the total amount  your loan holder must grant the forbearance if you qualify 
repaid for a $30,000 unsubsidized loan. The example loan  for the forbearance and supply all supporting 
has a 6% interest rate and the example deferment or  documentation. A forbearance can also be a discretionary 
forbearance lasts for 12 months and begins when the loan  forbearance, meaning that your loan holder may grant the 
entered repayment. The example compares the effects of  forbearance, but is not required to do so. 
paying the interest as it accrues or allowing it to be  The holder of your Direct Loans is the Department. The 
capitalized.  holder of your FFEL Program loans may be a lender, 
A co-maker is one of the two individuals who are joint  guaranty agency, secondary market, or the Department. The 
borrowers on a Direct or Federal Consolidation Loan or a  holder of your Perkins Loans is an institution of higher 
Federal PLUS Loan. Both co-makers are equally responsible  education or the Department. Your loan holder may use a 
for repaying the full amount of the loan.  servicer to handle billing and other communications related 
A deferment is a period during which you are entitled  to your loans. References to “your loan holder” on this form 
to postpone repayment of your loans. Interest is not  mean either your loan holder or your servicer. 
generally charged to you during a deferment on your  A subsidized loan is a Direct Subsidized Loan, a Direct 
subsidized loans. Interest is always charged to you during a  Subsidized Consolidation Loan, a Federal Subsidized 
deferment on your unsubsidized loans. On loans made  Stafford Loan, portions of some Federal Consolidation 
under the Perkins Loan Program, all deferments are  Loans, Federal Perkins Loans, NDSL, and Defense Loans. 
followed by a post-deferment grace period of 6 months,  An unsubsidized loan is a Direct Unsubsidized Loan, a 
during which time you are not required to make payments.  Direct Unsubsidized Consolidation Loan, a Direct PLUS 
An endorser is an individual who signs a promissory  Loan, a Federal Unsubsidized Stafford Loan, a Federal PLUS 
note and agrees to pay the loan if the borrower does not.  Loan, a Federal SLS, and portions of some Federal 
The Federal Family Education Loan (FFEL) Program  Consolidation Loans. 
includes Federal Stafford Loans, Federal PLUS Loans, Federal  The William D. Ford Federal Direct Loan (Direct Loan) 
Consolidation Loans, and Federal Supplemental Loans for  Program includes Federal Direct Stafford/Ford (Direct 
Students (SLS).  Subsidized) Loans, Federal Direct Unsubsidized Stafford/
The Federal Perkins Loan (Perkins Loan) Program  Ford (Direct Unsubsidized) Loans, Federal Direct PLUS 
includes Federal Perkins Loans, National Direct Student  (Direct PLUS) Loans, and Federal Direct Consolidation 
Loans (NDSL), and National Defense Student Loans (Defense  (Direct Consolidation) Loans.
Loans).
Table 1. Capitalization Chart
Treatment of Interest with  Loan Amt. Capitalized  Outstanding  Monthly  Number of  Total Repaid
Deferment/Forbearance Interest  Principal Payment Payments
Interest is paid $30,000 $0 $30,000 $333 120 $41,767

Interest is capitalized at the  $30,000 $1,800 $31,800 $353 120 $42,365
end
Interest is capitalized  $30,000 $1,841 $31,841 $354 120 $42,420
quarterly and at the end
SECTION 6: WHERE TO SEND THE COMPLETED FORBEARANCE REQUEST
Return the completed form and any documentation to:  If you need help completing this form, call: 
(If no address is shown, return to your loan holder.) (If no telephone number is shown, call your loan holder.)

123 Independence Ave  301-751-0000
New York, NY 12345

Page 3 of 4 SECTION 7: IMPORTANT NOTICES
Privacy Act Notice. The Privacy Act of 1974 (5 U.S.C.  To assist program administrators with tracking refunds 
552a) requires that the following notice be provided to you:  and cancellations, disclosures may be made to guaranty 
The authorities for collecting the requested information  agencies, to financial and educational institutions, or to 
from and about you are §421 et seq., §451 et seq., or §461 of  federal or state agencies. To provide a standardized method 
the Higher Education Act of 1965, as amended (20 U.S.C.  for educational institutions to efficiently submit student 
1071 et seq., 20 U.S.C. 1087a et seq., or 20 U.S.C. 1087aa et  enrollment statuses, disclosures may be made to guaranty 
seq.) and the authorities for collecting and using your Social  agencies or to financial and educational institutions. To 
Security Number (SSN) are §§428B(f) and 484(a)(4) of the  counsel you in repayment efforts, disclosures may be made 
HEA (20 U.S.C. 1078-2(f) and 1091(a)(4)) and 31 U.S.C.  to guaranty agencies, to financial and educational 
7701(b). Participating in the William D. Ford Federal Direct  institutions, or to federal, state, or local agencies.  
Loan (Direct Loan) Program, Federal Family Education Loan  In the event of litigation, we may send records to the 
(FFEL) Program, or Federal Perkins Loan (Perkins Loan)  Department of Justice, a court, adjudicative body, counsel, 
Program and giving us your SSN are voluntary, but you must  party, or witness if the disclosure is relevant and necessary 
provide the requested information, including your SSN, to  to the litigation. If this information, either alone or with 
participate.   other information, indicates a potential violation of law, we 
The principal purposes for collecting the information on  may send it to the appropriate authority for action. We may 
this form, including your SSN, are to verify your identity, to  send information to members of Congress if you ask them 
determine your eligibility to receive a loan or a benefit on a  to help you with federal student aid questions. In 
loan (such as a deferment, forbearance, discharge, or  circumstances involving employment complaints, 
forgiveness) under the Direct Loan, FFEL, or Federal Perkins  grievances, or disciplinary actions, we may disclose relevant 
Loan Programs, to permit the servicing of your loans, and, if  records to adjudicate or investigate the issues. If provided 
it becomes necessary, to locate you and to collect and  for by a collective bargaining agreement, we may disclose 
report on your loans if your loans become delinquent or  records to a labor organization recognized under 5 U.S.C. 
default. We also use your SSN as an account identifier and to  Chapter 71. Disclosures may be made to our contractors for 
permit you to access your account information  the purpose of performing any programmatic function that 
electronically.   requires disclosure of records. Before making any such 
  The information in your file may be disclosed, on a  disclosure, we will require the contractor to maintain Privacy 
case-by-case basis or under a computer matching program,  Act safeguards. Disclosures may also be made to qualified 
to third parties as authorized under routine uses in the  researchers under Privacy Act safeguards.  
appropriate systems of records notices. The routine uses of  Paperwork Reduction Notice. According to the 
this information include, but are not limited to, its disclosure  Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995, no persons are required 
to federal, state, or local agencies, to private parties such as  to respond to a collection of information unless such 
relatives, present and former employers, business and  collection displays a valid OMB control number. The valid 
personal associates, to consumer reporting agencies, to  OMB control number for this information collection is 
financial and educational institutions, and to guaranty  1845-0031. Public reporting burden for this collection of 
agencies in order to verify your identity, to determine your  information is estimated to average 5 minutes per response, 
eligibility to receive a loan or a benefit on a loan, to permit  including time for reviewing instructions, searching existing 
the servicing or collection of your loans, to enforce the  data sources, gathering and maintaining the data needed, 
terms of the loans, to investigate possible fraud and to verify  and completing and reviewing the collection of information. 
compliance with federal student financial aid program  The obligation to respond to this collection is required to 
regulations, or to locate you if you become delinquent in  obtain a benefit in accordance with 34 CFR 674.33, 682.211, 
your loan payments or if you default. To provide default rate  and 685.205. If you have comments or concerns regarding 
calculations, disclosures may be made to guaranty agencies,  the status of your individual submission of this form, please 
to financial and educational institutions, or to state  contact your loan holder directly (see Section 6). 
agencies. To provide financial aid history information, 
disclosures may be made to educational institutions. 

Page 4 of 4 